Should you be forever condemned for your 'sins of the past', if you truly are penitent? What if you are struck on the head and cannot remember the past, or suddenly think differently?.

If you are not penitent, then why - Is it wilful lack of penitence? 
Even if so, can I consider you evil for not knowing *why* one should not wilfully reject penance, or not prioritise it?

If you commit a horrendous crime and revel in it, why? Why are you like this - Is it true free will and absolute awareness, universal understanding & wisdom? No.
We are all idiots. All of us.
If I am unwilling to empathise with an 'evil' person, they and I then share the same flaw. And if I have more knowledge/awareness/focus on empathy, I have the greater ability to be compassionate. Does that make me a worse person, in that dimension at least?

I will (try to, when I can) empathise with people who think it's stupid to empathise and do not want to redeem themselves.
And continue to try to offer chances at redemption, and 

One thought experiment - Who is more 'sinful', for lack of a better term?:
- Person A commits a great crime, then 20 years later self-flagellates for the rest of their lives.
- Person B is a well educated philosopher who never forgives Person A.

Many will interpret me as saying people don't need to take accountability. I disagree - People's compassion stops short, because their empathy just doesn't look far enough 'down the path'. And that lack of compassion then makes them as susceptible to the issues that the wilfully non-penitent suffers from.

You and I 'know that we should know', and we 'care that we care'. Some people don't know that they don't know, that they should care that they care.

I know that this belief cannot be fully interpreted in reality, and I am not claiming that. I'm not calling for utter reform of the justice system. I'm asking people to go a look a few steps further down the critical path of events+empathy. 
And incidentally, that would lead to a more rehabilitative (rather than punitive) system, which is a separate topic.
I'm also not saying that punitive action doesn't have its merits in various degrees and situations, to various stakeholders.


But the world can ignore me, and keep taking an eye for an eye for an eye for an eye for an eye. Or judge the judgement of judgement of judgement.
I'm not expecting myself or anyone else to be truly compassionate. I'm just trying to catch myself lacking empathy when I am aware enough to do so, and trace the path back.

----

Or, I suppose I could have just said:
"if you are unable to care that you care, then you are in need of educating, and we should provide that education indefinitely. (See my point about ignorance being an excuse)."

----

All the above is a bit unfair on anyone that would debates it, because I have set up a recursive argument that I would just point back to - Sorry about that :P